'In a journey to everywhere'
'Between cities and nations'
'In the presence of the Wise Remembrance'
'The Lord of all hearts Has unified us... Has unified us all.'
'And for the sake of memorizing the book'
'We have knocked every door'
'We shall continue this right path, before things come to an end'
We have learned many ways to help us reflect upon the speech
of Allah SWT
Together, we will learn more to be able to contemplate these
great verses
One of important the things we should care to know
is the objectives of each surah
When we read the Qur'an, one surah through to the other,
We forget to pause to think about the messages of each surah,
connecting the topics and the themes it had deliberated
Let me be more elaborate,
When you read surat Al- Fatihah
Which we read several times daily
If we want to reflect upon this surah,
We need to understand the topics covered in this surah
It is a great surah that has summed up the bases of
both religion and life collectively
Allah SWT says;" [All] praise is [due] to Allah, Lord of the worlds-"
" The Entirely Merciful, the Especially Merciful,"
" Sovereign of the Day of Recompense."
The topic here is the Doctrine [ Aqeeda] and
the oneness of Allah SWT.
When you read ;" It is You we worship and You we ask for help."
here comes worshiping of Allah,
Have you noticed the topic change?
1- Aqeeda, 2- worshiping
Then he said;" Guide us to the straight path -"
" The path of those upon whom You have bestowed favor, "
" not of those who have evoked [Your] anger or of those who are astray."
A life path
This great surah consisted of three topics
Every surah you read, look for its topics
What its messages are?
what are the lessons we convey from it?
For example, surat Al-Kahf,
It has four parts in the form of four trials and tests
The first is the story of the companions in the cave,
They were tested in their belief
Then comes the lessons we get from this story
secondly, is the story of the owners of the two gardens
Their wealth was their test
We have lessons here to look at
Thirdly comes the story of Moses and Al-Khider,
Where the Knowledge is the test
And finally, the story of Dhu-Al-Qarnien,
Where you will know that authority is the subject of testing
All these 4 temptations are brought by Antichrist
How can we protect ourselves from the temptations of the Antichrist?
The prophet SAW said to read and memorize the first 10 verses
of surat Al-Kahf.
This is how we can learn, and how we contemplate!
This is the way of teaching of the great Qur'an
Get the lessons and the topics of the surahs
This is the correct way, by the will of Allah
for reflecting upon the speech of Allah SWT
' It is a design for life rules'
' for our hearts it's a life guard'
' It contains lessons and ranks'
' And the way of success in Dunya and Deen'
Now, we are flying to Lombok island, Indonesia
The pilots allowed me inside their cabin
The view is very beautiful from here, Glory to Allah SWT
Lombok Island is famous for 'the Island of Hufadh'
So many Hufadh are on this island
I ask Allah SWT to make our trip successful
All our efforts are dedicated to show the Glory of the Noble Qur'an
'with it, I shorten my long journey'
'and blessings in my heart increase'
'In the presence of the Worthy Remembrance'
'the soul is always pleased with that company'
'A light of goodness for life'
'we aim with it towards  Allah '
'and it wanders  along all roads'
'a light glows with brightness'
One of the distinguished centers for memorization of the Our'an
at Lombok Island.., by Allah, at Indonesia as a whole
compared by the number of perfect hufadh they have in this school;
The Al-Azizia Institute
- Asalam Alikum, How are you?
[Sheikh Fahad Al-Kandari, Imam of the Big Masjid in Kuwait]
- By the will of Allah, Are you good Sheikh Mustafa?
- Praise to Allah
- May Allah extend your life
- By the will of Allah, Are you good?
- Praise to Allah
- May Allah preserve you
- We thank Allah for your safe arrival
- May Allah bless you
- May Allah bless you Sheikh, ma'sha'Allah
- Thank you very much
- What a beautiful place of Qur'an
- Praise to Allah
- What an amazing Institute
- The aim is the Noble Qur'an
- May Allah preserve you
- Asalamu-Alikum
- Wa Alikum Assalam we rahmato Allah wa Barakatu
Ma'sha'Allah, praise to the Entirely Merciful
- Amazing place
- This place is established by Sheikh Mustafa
- The Azizia Institute, Lombok Island
- We are very happy to be in this place
-This great scene is very impressive for me and for our show team
- there are about 2 thousands of students here
- It is really remarkable!
- Ma'sha'Allah, praise to the Entirely Merciful
- The surrounding is joyful in Al-Azizia Institute
- With me here is the founder of this famous Institute
- in Indonesia and the surrounding countries
- Sheikh Mustafa Omar Abdul-Aziz
- He named this Institute after his grand-father Abdul-Aziz
- And because he also taught in Al-Azizia in Makkah
- So the name worked out both..
- Both ways
- How are you sheikh?
- Praise to Allah
- By the will of Allah, Are you good?
- Sheikh Mustafa Omar Abdul-Aziz built this distinguished center
- at 1985 after he came back from Makkah Almukaramah, Saudi Arabia
- He was teaching Hadeeth and Tafseer in the Haram of Makkah
- For 11 years
- This was the dream of sheikh Mustafa Omar,
[ Muhammad Redwan]
- To have his own Institute for memorization of the Qur'an
- He started his project by a Masjid in his village
- We established this Institute especially for memorization of the Noble Qur'an
- Praise to Allah, we have students boys and girls
- You have female students too sheikh?
- Yes
- How many female students?
- About seven hundreds
- Ma'sha'Allah, praise to the Entirely Merciful
- Yes
- 700 students
- After he consulted his family, he sold all his property
Imagine that, He sold all the farms he had, to build this
Qur'anic Institute
This is the real trade, with Allah SWT
Now there is more than 2000 students in this institute
More than 300 graduated from this institute
They memorized the whole Qur'an
How lucky you are, sheikh Mustafa!
" Say, 'I seek refuge in the Lord of daybreak'"
" 'From the evil of that which He created' "
" 'And from the evil of darkness when it settles' "
" 'And from the evil of the blowers in knots' "
" 'And from the evil of an envier when he envies.' "
- For how long you've been here in this Institute?
- Three. [ Matara mubarak]
- Three years.
- Yes.
- Ma'sha'Allah, praise to the Entirely Merciful
- How old are you now?
- Thirteen
- Thirteen years, Ma'sha'Allah, praise to the Entirely Merciful
- Ready for the test in Qur'an?
- By the will of Allah
- Ready! By the will of Allah.
"And the companions of Paradise will call out"
" to the companions of the Fire,"
" 'We have already found what our Lord promised us to be true.' "
"And the companions of Paradise will call out"
" to the companions of the Fire,"
" 'We have already found what our Lord promised us to be true.' "
" 'Have you found what your Lord promised to be true?' "
" They will say, 'Yes.' Then an announcer will announce among them,"
" 'The curse of Allah shall be upon the wrongdoers.' "
" Who averted [people] from the way of Allah "
" and sought to make it [seem] deviant"
" while they were, concerning the Hereafter, disbelievers."
- Ma'sha'Allah, Ma'sha'Allah, Sheikh!
- May Allah bless you, Oh Lord
At Al- Azizia Institute,
it takes about 3 to 4 years to memorize the whole Qur'an
Remember, they do not speak Arabic as a language
" Our Lord, indeed we have heard a caller calling to faith, [saying],"
"  'Believe in your Lord,' and we have believed."
" Our Lord, so forgive us our sins "
"  and remove from us our misdeeds "
" and cause us to die with the righteous."
- Seeing this great gathering
- This great and beautiful Qur'anic congregation
-It came to my mind the Hadeeth,
- From the prophet, May peace and blessings be upon him
- He said;" Seven whom Allah will have them in his Shade,"
- " When there is no shade but his almighty;"
- Of them is "a young man who grew up in the worship of Allah."
- And the best worship you would do growing up,
- is memorizing the Noble Qur'an
- It is a pleasure for me to see you memorize the Qur'an
- in Indonesia with this accuracy.
- And by the will of Allah, You are to expect your place in Jannah
- And your rank in Jannah is according to the number of verses
- you memorized,
' Elevate just because you have memorize, oh Muslim!'
' Elevate to the Firdos level, and meet the Giver'
' Elevate for that you spent much effort to memorize it'
' And you worked on it by your actions and by teaching it'
To give you an idea of how perfect are the Hufadh of this Institute,
The Ministry of Endowment of Qatar, needed 20 Imams from Indonesia,
Their choice was from graduates from this school only
- How long did it take you to memorize the Qur'an?
- Two or three years?  [ Ismail Hqi]
- Three years
- After three years you memorized the Qur'an, Ma'sha'Allah
- May I test your memorization of the Qur'an
- Yes,
- We go on?
- Yes
" They ask you, [O Muhammad], about the bounties [of war]."
In the name of Allah , the Entirely Merciful, the Especially Merciful.
" Say, 'The [decision concerning] bounties' "
" 'is for Allah and the Messenger.' "
" So fear Allah and amend that which is between you"
" and obey Allah and His Messenger,"
" if you should be believers."
- Ma'sha'Allah, Ma'sha'Allah, Sheikh Ismail!
- Ma'sha'Allah, praise to the Entirely Merciful
- Praise to Allah
- May Allah preserve you, very beautiful recitation
- Have you noticed how nicely the letters are pronounced,
- How perfect the recitation is and
- How the start and stop are just in place!
- Very beautiful recitation, Ma'sha'Allah,
- I ask Allah SWT to preserve him, and
-  Increase his likes
One of the perfect hufadh, graduates of Al-Azizia institute
A young man, perfect hafidh, his voice is amazing
What is his story with the Qur'an? Sheikh Ahmed Menor
" To Allah belongs whatever is in the heavens and whatever is in the earth."
" Whether you show what is within yourselves or conceal it,"
" Allah will bring you to account for it. "
- after you had memorized the Qur'an,
- Did you notice any change in your life?
- Have you became any happier by doing so?
- Praise to Allah, when I recite the Qur'an, I noticed that
- any problem I had during the day is solved.
For example; the financial issues
- Allah says;" And seek help through patience and prayer,"
- Glory to Allah
" and indeed, it is difficult except for the humbly submissive [to Allah ]"
- How do you reflect upon the speech of Allah SWT?
- For example, Allah SWT says,
" So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny?"
- Whatever we see around us is a blessing from Allah
- Glory to Allah, This is surat Arrahman
- It is an opportunity to hear some of this surah from you!
In the name of Allah , the Entirely Merciful, the Especially Merciful.
" The Most Merciful"
" Taught the Qur'an,"
" Created man,"
" [And] taught him eloquence."
" The sun and the moon [move] by precise calculation,"
" And the stars and trees prostrate."
" And the heaven He raised and imposed the balance"
- Sheikh, some of the youth do not feel like memorizing the Qur'an
- They don't realize the importance of memorizing the Qur'an
- Ma'sha'Allah, you are young, you are 25 years old
- What can you tell them from your experience?
- To show them the value of memorizing the Qur'an
- Ma'sha'Allah, if they just know what the Qur'an have for them,
- They would kept occupied with it all the time
- Glory to Allah!
- This is his message, if they know the goodness in the Qur'an
- They would always have it with them everyday
' Lovers at Heaven, their greeting is Peace'
' Memorizers  honored by the words of the Lord of the creation'
' They recite during the night, and the day'
' Oh Allah, make them among the ambassador noble Angels'
It is wonderful to see the fruits of your charity work
in dunya before thereafter
Our show team visited The Institute of Abu-Hurira, Hufadh Island
for memorization of the Qur'an
It was founded by Masjid Ibn-Taymea in El-Shamya
Under supervision of the Islamic Heritage Revival Society
Sheikh Fakhr-El-Deen, the director of the school, took me in a tour around
We prayed Fajr then took off
'It is the guidance, the mercy and the clear Lighted path'
'It is peace for the hearts of the believers'
'Its people are in peace'
'And its love is strength and faith'
'We say to them, the Lord of the worlds is with you'
- The Prophet SAW says, 'My Umma have all the blessings..'
- '.. during the early hours of the day.'
- And " Nor does he speak from [his own] inclination."
- Yes, this is the time for Qur'an recitation
- Allah Almighty says, " and [also] the Qur'an of dawn."
- " Indeed, the recitation of dawn is ever witnessed."
- The best time to recite the Qur'an and to reflect upon it
- It is at Fajr time
- Now I have the Sheikh with me among these students,
- May Allah bless them
- We are at Lombok Island, Indonesia
- We started constructions at 2010
[ Sheikh Fakhr-El-Deen Abdul-Rahman]
- By Sheikh Fawas Al-Qulaib, may Allah preserve him
- The donations were collected from Masjid Ibn-Taymeah at
- El-Shamya, Kuwait
- Praise to Allah
- This is what your donations and charity did
- All these buildings, classes, masjid, dormancy and ablution area
- Also Mushafs and Instructors etc.
-Perhaps you didn't see these achievements
- Maybe it is seen by few participants as Brother Fawas A-Qulib
- These students of the Qur'an, after the blessings of Allah SWT,
- are the fruits of your donations.
- And those who help for memorizing the Qur'an...helping is
- like doing, so every letter memorized by these students is
- in the scale of your good deeds
With the hafadh of the Qur'an,
Ma'sha'Allah, praise to the Entirely Merciful
We are coming from the masjid after they finished their session
and going to classes and schoolyards
I feel real happiness when I am with the hafadh of
the Book of Allah Almighty
They suffered a lot to memorize the Qur'an
Including, not knowing the Arabic language
Now, I see most of them learned Arabic
and began to memorize the Qur'an,
I ask Allah SWT to make them all from the hufadh
of the Book of Allah Almighty to fulfill what Allah said
" Indeed, it is We who sent down the Qur'an "
" and indeed, We will be its guardian."
- The Qur'an is preserved in the hearts of these hufadh
- all over the world
'When I breathe the essence of my soul'
'And the door of goodness opens for me'
'That's when the soul flows with its scent'
'The perfume of love throughout the gardens'
'We travel in the journey of Qur'an'
'Along the roads of goodness and to home lands '
'With the noble target of life'
'It's to win the acceptance of Allah'
'In the company of the Qur'an, the journey is sweet'
'Through the lights with reflections'
'With souls by impression'
'It has all the good and evidence'
'From the Qur'an to mankind'
'In all horizons and universes'
'We are in its journey at all times'
'Our only wish is acceptance of Allah'